https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/
https://www.infrastructure.aws/
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2017/10/cloudfront-now-has-100-points-of-presence/
https://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/features/

AWS Region:
To help improve reliability and allow customers to operate in each country effectively whilst obeying any data sovereignty, or data location laws, AWS has introduced a concept known as an AWS region, which is basiclly a local grouping of infrastructure. 
Number of AWS Regions: 24(3 are announced)
Use Cases:
(+)Regions are Isolated so failure on one region won't services impact other region.
(+)Region also helps isolate the data to a specific country so that it allows you to control which data sovereignty laws the data comes under.

AWS Global network:
The Global AWS infrastructure is connected by a highspeed network called the "AWS Global network".
Use Cases:
(+)There are many AWS services that are able to utilize this high speed network to achieve better transfer rates, lower latency, and an improved user experience and they do this by transferring data over this network rather than the public internet and this network has been optimized for performance by AWS for use with AWS products. 

AWS Availablity Zones:
Regions are further divided in Availablity Zones and they are isolated infrastructure with a region. They are completely separate facilities comprising of one or more data centres connected by high speed network. Each availability zone is denoted by a letter.
Example: The North Virginia region, which is us-east-1, we've got different availability zones so us-east-1a, us-east-1b, us-east-1c, and so on.
Total number of AWS Regions: 76
Use Cases:
(+)If a solution is designed to run from  multiple availability zones inside the same region then it's protected against major faults in that region, if one availability zone fails, it won't impact services in another.
(+)High availability can be ensured by using multiple availability zones in a region or multiple regions can be used globally or both. For example Netflix designed their platform to operate globally, utilizing multiple AWS regions and multiple availability zones in each of those regions. 

POPs:
POPs or Point of Presence are smaller in size. They have local storage and they're connected to the AWS Global network and other AWS regions. 
Some services can use them for limited compute tasks such as edge based compute. 
You can even utilize them with some AWS services, but you can't treat them as a fully fledged region or availability zone. 
These points of presence are generally used by AWS products such as CloudFront, which is a content delivery network. 
Total Number of POPs: 216 (205 Edge Locations and 11 Regional Edge Caches)
Use Cases:
(+)There may be scenarios where a platform need to distribute content or operate one or more applications globally.  In such scenarios we could make it a global deployment using multiple AWS regions but in some cases there may be a POP located much near to the user's location we could make use of AWS edge locations, also known as POPs or points of presence. 


#####################################################################################################################################
Welcome back and in the last lesson, I covered some of the AWS account fundamentals from an architecture point of view. 
In this lesson, I want to talk about the AWS global infrastructure platform. 
AWS have actually designed their infrastructure in a really intelligent way from an architectural perspective. 
To help improve reliability and allow customers to operate in each country effectively whilst obeying any data sovereignty, or data location laws. 

AWS Region:
To help improve reliability and allow customers to operate in each country effectively whilst obeying any data sovereignty, or data location laws, AWS has introduced a concept known as an AWS region. A region is  basiclly a local grouping of infrastructure. 
So think about this in terms of networking, compute, storage, anything which is offered by AWS within a region. 
Now why this is important is because, apart from a few exceptions, a service is delivered from a region. 
If you create a virtual machine known as an EC2 instance within AWS, it's created inside a region. 
If you create an S3 bucket to store cat pictures, which is something we'll look at in the next topic, or you create a private, cloud based network known as a VPC. 
There all done in a specific region. 
Now, the number of regions available within AWS is always changing, but at the time of creating this lesson, there are 21 of them, with four additional ones planning for the future. 
Now regions support two very important functions. 
Firstly, they're isolated. 
A major failure in one region won't impact services in other regions, and this allows a global company like Netflix to build to deploy services into different regions and do so globally. 
So if one fails, their platform continues operating normally. 
Now, the second feature provided by a region is they isolate data to a specific country. 
Unless you decide otherwise, if you create a service in a particular region, let's say one of the American regions then your data will never leave that region unless you decide otherwise. 
Regions allow you to operate in a specific country where you know its laws and can be sure that data will only operate under the jurisdiction of those laws. 
If you're a European based company or do business with European customers, then if you decide to use a region in Europe, you'll come under different laws than the U.S. 
and for some businesses, it might be preferential to do that way or vice versa. 
Now AWS have created a web application, which provides a great overview of the way that these regions of structured. 
I'll make sure that a link to this is in the lesson description but this is an overview of how the AWS Global Infrastructure platform looks. 
In this particular case, these yellow-orange dots are the AWS regions, and, as you can see, they're distributed globally. 
We've got ones in North America, South America, Europe, Africa. 
We've got ones in Asia and even Australia. 
Now regions are identified by two things. 
We've got the region code generally called the region, and an example of this is U.S. 
East One. 
Another example is U.S. 
East two and then if I scroll down, we've also got the European regions an example is E.U. 
West one as well as this regional region code, we've also got the region name so U.S. 
East 1 is also known as US East North Virginia. 
If we switch over quickly to the AWS console, you'll note the top right of the screen. 
There's always this dropdown, which allows you to select between regions. 
Most products operate in a region isolated way, which means when you're creating something within that service you're doing it in a particular region and you'll notice that nearly all the practical examples that I'll be showing you throughout this course will be created inside U.S. 
East, North Virginia so that the U.S. 
East one that's the region or region code and the region name is U.S. 
East, North Virginia. 
You've always got this dropdown where you can select between them and for some products like S3 services which operate from a global perspective then you'll see global listed here rather than a specific region. 
So with S3, it is a global product but as you'll see in the next topic, when I go over this product, when you create things inside S3 you do so in a particular region. 
It's the buckets themselves that are created in a region it's not the product and don't worry, if this is confusing. 
At this stage, I haven't yet introduced any of the AWS products in detail. 
I'll start doing that in the product fundamentals topic that we're going to cover next.

AWS Global network: 
Now, back to the infrastructure overview I want to talk about the AWS Global network. 
Between the regions that make up the AWS global infrastructure is a high speed network, so that's represented by these dotted lines that crisscross between the different geographic areas that AWS have presence in. 
So we've got links between the region that's in Sydney, the region that's in Tokyo. 
We've got links that criss cross Australia as well as having some links between Australia and the West Coast of the U.S. 
Now as a solutions architect, understanding the benefits of this global network is essential. 
There are many AWS services that you'll learn about throughout this course, which are able to utilize this high speed network to achieve better transfer rates, lower latency, and an improved user experience and they do this by transferring data over this network rather than the public internet and this network has been optimized for performance by AWS for use with AWS products. 
So wherever possible, you should look to utilize this network, and I'll demonstrate how you can do this with various different AWS products as we proceed through out the course. 




Availablity Zone:
Now, every AWS region is further broken up into what's known as an availability zone or AZ. 
Every region has a number of these, so if you look at the U.S. for every region which is represented by these yellow orange dots, it's surrounded by blue dots. So these are the availability zones. Each availability zone within a region is represented by a letter. 
So in the North Virginia region, which is U.S. East one, we've got different availability zones so U.S. 
East 1a 1b, 1c, and so on. Now, some regions might have three availability zones, others four. Some might even have five. Knowing the specific number of availability zones within each region isn't important for the exam or when you're using AWS in production. 

What is important is an awareness of how these availability zones will influence your solutions architecture. 
So what do availabilities zones do? They're essentially isolated infrastructure within a region. 
So if you look at the architecture on the right of your screen now I've got highlighted one particular region, which is Asia Pacific Southeast 2 which is the Sydney region. 
Inside that I've got these separate, isolated pieces of infrastructure. 
They want to say that essentially mean compute storage. 
Networking on all the services inside that region, an availability zone might consist of one data center, or it could be several in the same local area. 
So on this map on the center of your screen, these two blue dots represent availability zones and they're separated geographically to ensure that if there is a disaster or the serious event at one of these availability zones, it won't impact the other. 
AWS guarantee this separation within a region so within a region every availability zone is split geographically from every other availability zone, and they're connected with high speed networking between those availability zones so products and services will generally be able to communicate between these availability zones freely, but it's worthwhile as a solutions architect, understanding that they are completely separate facilities. 
This means that if you design your solution to run from multiple availability zones inside the same region then it's protected against major faults in that region, if one availability zone fails, it won't impact services in another. 
Now, within this course, I'll be talking about availability zones constantly. 
They're an essential part of any AWS design. 
Everything in AWS uses availability zones in some form or another. 
So from a high availability perspective, you can choose to use multiple availability zones in a region, so multiple facilities in the same region or you can use multiple regions globally or both. 
It depends on your business requirements. 
Generally, AWS makes it easy to operate in multiple availability zones in the same region. 
It's treated as the same area operating in multiple regions globally and having it be the same application that's a little bit more difficult, but it can be done. 
Companies such as Netflix designed that platform to operate globally, utilizing multiple AWS regions and multiple availability zones in each of those regions. 
Later, in the course, you'll learn about a product called Virtual Private Cloud, or VPC, which is AWS's private networking product. 
Now this lets you create a private network in a specific region. 
It's specific to that region, but in that network, availability zones could be utilized to provide that level of fault tolerance. 
Most small and medium sized projects will utilize a single region generally using multiple availability zones in that region and optionally, they might use another region as a backup or DR region. 
Now, another reason to pick a specific region is to make sure that your product is as close to your customers as possible. 
If you distribute content to uses in the U.S., for example, then it makes no sense to use European regions because there's going to be latency that's generated by transferring data from Europe to the U.S. 




POPs:
In some cases, you might need to distribute content or operate one or more applications globally. 
You could make it a global deployment using multiple AWS regions but there is another option, and that's to use AWS edge locations, also known as POPs or points of presence. 
So these points of presence are generally used by AWS products such as CloudFront, which is a content delivery network. 
To deliver content to end users with lower latency, Amazon CloudFront uses a global network of 216 Points of Presence (205 Edge Locations and 11 Regional Edge Caches) in 84 cities across 42 countries.

Now these POPs are smaller operations, they're smaller in size. They have local storage. They're connected to the AWS Global network and other AWS regions. Some services can use them for limited compute tasks such as edge based compute. You can even utilize them with some AWS services, but you can't treat them as a fully fledged region or availability zone. 
They're not something that you can decide, for example, to deploy a virtual machine into known as an EC2 instance only certain products can utilize these points of presence, but the fact that they're small means that they can be distributed across a wider area globally. 
An example of this is in my local AWS region. 
Australia currently has a single region based in Sydney, which is Asia Pacific 2. 
Now that region has three availability zones but there are more places that people live in Australia than just Sydney. 
We've got Perth, for example, which is several time zones away, and even Melbourne, which is a short plane ride. 
Each of those major population centers has a point of presence mean that users in those areas convention fit from data being stored and delivered from a point closer to them geographically, that this means better speed, lower latency and more consistency in terms of performance. 
It's just a better user experience. 
So these points of presence are generally used by AWS products such as CloudFront, which is a content delivery network. 
So if you've got a global application that's delivering cat pictures or cat videos, you want that immediate positioned as close as possible to your user base. 
If you've got a lot of customers for these cat pictures and movies that are based in Melbourne, Australia, for example, then having that content in Melbourne and delivered locally is much preferred than delivering that content from the continental U.S. 
So AWS has designed a tiered system, their global infrastructure. 


You start off with AWS regions, which are large pockets of infrastructure and distributed geographically to meet legal and data storage requirements as well as providing global resilience for larger AWS customers such as Netflix. 
Moving down from these regions, we've got availability zones and availability zones provide fault tolerance and high availability within that region. 
They're isolated infrastructure connected in that region with high speed networking. 
Each of those availability zones might be one facility or multiple facilities that are close together and then helping to push content even closer to your users are the network of AWS POPs, also known as point of presence, or edge locations, Now I would recommend using this site and exploring the AWS Global Network really becoming comfortable with all of the different components that make up the global AWS cloud computing and networking platform. 
I'll make sure there is a link in the lesson description, which takes you to this website, but it is a really worthwhile resource and if you do want to go into even more detail, you're able to select the areas that I haven't covered, which covered the type of hardware, the detail, networking and even the facilities themselves. 
So the data centers. 
This site has got complete details that you'll require on all of the different elements of the AWS global network. 
Now, with that being said, that is everything that I wanted to cover in this lesson, where I have talked about the global infrastructure platform the AWS maintain. 
Go ahead, and mark this video as complete and when you're ready, join me in the next.